Continuous deployment can be an incredible tool in your arsenal.
Not only does CD save time,
but it opened some unexpected doors that have a ripple effect in the entire organization.
Let's take a look at where CD fits into the overall software development lifecycle.
Remember, continuous integration is all about code,
and building an artifact.
That artifact might be a zip file,
a docker image, or an executable.
But an artifact by itself can't really generate value.
It needs to be deployed first.
So that's where continuous deployment or CD comes in.
CD is all about deploying that artifact so that it can be used and can generate value.
The goal is to reach production.
On the road to production,
CD can do many things to enhance and protect the value of the artifact.
CD can build up the infrastructure needed to host the artifact.
It can provision servers to make sure they have what they need to support the artifact.
It can copy files around to where they need to go and contest
various aspects of the deployment in case anything went wrong.
When CD is finally finished,
and the artifact is available to the world to use,
we can truly say that CD has helped us turn code into cash.
As you can imagine, all this can potentially take just a few minutes,
something that would have taken an ops team a few hours to accomplish.
Because of that speed and the low effort required,
it opens up new doors to more frequent deployments.
More frequent deployments has a way of affecting
other processes like story slicing, feature grooming.
Just the mere presence of a well-designed CD system in
your deployment process can have transformative effects on the entire company.
Now that I've built up CD and put it on such a high pedestal,
it's good to step back,
consider the big picture,
and ask yourself some healthy questions like what will I lose when I add CD?
The ability to tinker with servers manually.
The opaque wall of secrecy around one devs way of
deploying or free pizza from the deployment all-nighters.
Another question is, what will I gain when I have CD?
Well automated deployments to QA, staging, and prod,
more time to develop features,
generate more confidence among stakeholders.
Ha, it looks like the list of things we're losing with
CD are things I might not mind losing after all.
The things I'm gaining would really enhance my life as a developer.